[Music]  today's sentencing the latest chapter of  a bizarre years-long legal saga in 2019  smilet claimed two masked men hurled  racial and homophobic slurs at him threw  chemicals at the empire star and tied a  noose around his neck there were doubts  the incident was legitimate but he spoke  out about the alleged attack if i had  said  it was a muslim  or mexican  or someone black  i feel like the doubters would have  supported me a lot  soon after chicago police announced  smilet staged the whole thing with two  associates his associates the osindairo  brothers testified against the actor  saints millet paid them to attack him  outside his chicago home his older  brother and 92 year old grandmother  speaking directly to the judge jesse  does not have malice or hatred toward  anyone and it is truly unfortunate that  his reputation has received so many  negative connotations and i ask you the  judge not to send him to prison if you  do send me along with him  that's a topic for a video  i know why the cia gets a bad name i  know  i used to live in laos i used to live in  cambodia  man  laos used to look like a piece of swiss  cheese the united states dropped more  bombs on laos this tiny poverty-stricken  country than they dropped on all of  japan and all of germany and world war  ii combined okay i know and that war  wasn't the us air force wasn't the army  it was the good old cia  i know why the cia gets a bad reputation  but i see these things  in the news  and i wonder  why don't you people ask yourself  what would the cia do  can't you take some spiritual and moral  guidance in your life  from the cia  jesse smullet  trying to trying to fake  okay  trying to stage manage  a political hoax let's put it that way  to make himself  a more politically significant figure or  more cia does that cia has done that in  latin america southeast asia done that  all over the world man sure fake  violence reel the violent through  why didn't you just just stop and ask  yourself  what would the cia do there was so much  wrong with this plan there was so much  wrong with it at every stage that you  look back and think  how could this  possibly have gone right  my girlfriend and i've been watching a  lot of videos again from uh dj vlad  shout out to vlad tv youtube channel  here  and i hear about one crime after another  one murder after another and this kind  of thing  and there's just no way  these people could have gotten away with  it like there were the specifics of the  crime but again like what do you what do  you think or is it the influence of  christianity is it like oh this is what  jesus would do guess what jesus was  found guilty he went to trial he was  executed on a goddamn cross jesus is not  the patron saint of getting away with  murder okay he's about getting caught  standing trial and doing your time  did his did his time on a wooden stick  bro it's not who you want to look up to  in these situations like there were the  specifics of how they carry out the  murderer yeah but then on a broader  cultural level  it's like man you know what if you want  to get away with murder  you want to involve like 20 or 30 people  you wanna do you really wanna have a  gang of people involved and then have  like social occasions where you hang out  drink beer out of long necks  like get high  and and boast about this murder like  expanding the number of direct and  indirect witnesses and participants like  30 60 90 like it keeps it keeps going up  like just just stop and ask you know  yeah it kills people all the time  how does the cia get away with mark what  would the cia do i'm just certain  if you contrast the gain culture  to the professional killer culture of  the ca you don't even need to do a lot  of research but guys you don't need to  read a lot of  just  just ask yourself  and you know what people i i can even  extend this to some things that are that  are positive right you know what if  you're trying to make a positive  difference in the world if you're trying  to do political activism don't do some  dumb [ __ ] standing on the sidewalk  holding a sign  is that how cia influences world  politics  never thought of this is  you know what you know what  do you think do you think the u.s  government is ever there like  guys how are we going to influence  government policy in nicaragua  let's let's ask let's ask the cia the  cia comes back to them like well we've  got this plan  we're going to get some people to hold  signs  and walk back and forth on the sidewalk  [Laughter]  ask yourself positive or negative  channel them a channel this year is your  spirit animal here people reach out for  spiritual guidance this year  what would the cia do i'm disgusted  unsubbed unfollowed goodbye  [Music]  there's a an 18 year old black woman in  madison wisconsin who was set on fire by  white men she was stopped at a stoplight  and she says that as she was waiting in  that at that stoplight in madison  wisconsin  they sprayed her with lighter fluid and  then lit her on fire  in preparation for recording this video  i did precisely what none of the  journalists in the mainstream media did  and that is that i read the full  police report from cover to cover so i  can say to you  with some confidence  this is about  fraud  this is about  politically motivated deception  on a massive scale as i'm asking you to  be very skeptical about what mainstream  news broadcasters have told you about  this case that unfolded at the height  of public fascination with the black  lives matter movement a few months ago  it is inevitable that you will be  skeptical of what i have to say also and  so in opening this video just to peak  your skepticism i would like to point  out that this is videotape evidence of  precisely what happened when this young  woman drove through the intersection  where she said these extraordinary  events unfolded  this is the log  moment by moment of when her car  passed through each of the intersections  downtown including the one where she  described these extraordinary events  happening  and this is the text message she sent to  her boyfriend approximately three  minutes after  those events unfolded when her hair and  face would have still been  smoldering after she had patted out the  flames now to an abc news exclusive the  18 year old vibration woman who said she  was attacked by four men while white men  while she was driving althea bernstein  says she was set on fire and alex prez  joins us with the latest on the  investigation good morning alex  hey good morning george the 18 year old  says she's studying to be a paramedic  and some of those skills kicked in at  the horrifying moment she was attacked  this morning police in madison wisconsin  are searching for the suspects  responsible for this a young biracial  woman suffering second and third degree  burns after she says she was set on fire  she said i was listening to some music  at a stoplight and then all of a sudden  i heard someone well yell the n-word  really loud  i turned my head to look and somebody's  throwing lighter fluid on me and then  they threw a lighter at me and my neck  caught on fire and i tried to put it out  i haven't really slept and um i don't  really have an appetite so it's just  i don't want anyone to ever  feel like this i don't even like  remember  anything but your brain still has that  fight or fight response that takes care  of you so i made it home i  called my mom i went to the i drove  myself to the er  now an active and ongoing investigation  madison's mayor saying while we are  still learning more about the details  current information suggests this may  have been a premeditated crime targeted  toward people of color which makes the  incident even more disturbing  it's definitely  a learning opportunity and i'm very very  hopeful that these men  sort of see all the responses and that  they  know that they hurt me  and this is something that's going to  affect me for a while she was not  terribly convincing on camera and  looking at the police report it seems  that she was not terribly convincing  off-camera either quote althea stated  that she didn't think nick would do  anything violent to her althea then  stated quote i don't remember anything  close quote  that would look great in court  if this were to ever go to court  she stated that the fact that there  isn't any video of the attack happening  really concerns her  and confuses her  and i'll bet the original audio  recording of this discussion with the  police  she would sound very confused indeed and  would further discredit herself in court  i asked her if when she said she didn't  remember anything she meant she didn't  remember anything from that night or she  didn't remember livingston doing  anything violent or harmful to her  althea then stated quote i don't  remember the attack close quote  she stated that she remembered it really  well a couple days after it occurred but  that is slowly fading from her memory  since then althea went on to say she  feels as though her brain is erasing or  cutting out the memories of the attack  as time goes by yes um quite apart from  the level of scrutiny required for a  police investigation or for a conviction  in court just imagine if journalists did  basic fact checking and asked questions  of this kind so uh you know we're doing  this story live and you just  looked it up so i have not had a chance  to read the details but presumably if  she went to the hospital and she's got  burns on her neck and face  that's verifiable  and so if it turns out not to be the  case obviously we'll come back and tell  you that we continue reading directly  from the police report  quote i told althea that one of the  things we had questions about was a  number of steps that she had taken as  she left livingston's apartment i  explained that based both on her and  livingston's statement she had left his  apartment and walked to her car on her  own i stated that there was a large  number of steps and a longer amount of  time that didn't seem consistent with  her just leaving his apartment and going  to her car i i paused how did the police  know this because all of these people  are carrying cell phones and are  constantly messaging one another so you  know their precise location of what  they're doing almost at every moment of  the day both she and livingston believe  this car was parked right outside so  there was one little gap in the schedule  that couldn't be accounted for whereas  if you look at how many moments passed  when she drove through each intersection  without ever stopping at a red light  without ever having her window down and  listening to music without any of the  most basic assumptions of her fabricated  story having been true there wasn't any  time there when she could have been  attacked or could have received the  burns but there was there was some time  when she was with her boyfriend when  something  could have happened  i asked if she remembered anything else  from that night that might have happened  in between leaving livingston's  apartment and getting to her car althea  answered quote i don't even know close  quote again that would that would stand  up really well in court and if you were  just a journalist covering this case and  you just read this if you were a  journalist you didn't even conduct the  interview you just read this summary of  the police interview how would you  report the story i want to share one  more detail that she  shared with authorities she said two of  them were wearing all black and the  other two donned  floral shirts and jeans and keep in mind  that lately there have been far-right  protesters agitators  essentially white supremacists who have  been showing up at black lives matter uh  protests uh to cause problems uh in in  some cases even attack some of the  protesters althea asked if we had been  able to find any cameras around  livingston's apartments like oh so the  police are confronting you with this  like hey we have a different explanation  for these events concerning what  happened when you were at or around your  boyfriend's apartment she's like oh well  do you do you have videotape evidence of  that  quote i stated that we had not althea  then stated i'm 100 confident of what  happened  oh gee just uh just a few seconds ago  you said you were confused and you  didn't remember and it felt like it was  erased your memory and then you asked oh  do you have videotaping okay then did  i'm 100 confident of what happened  yeah you have discredited yourself and  this is not the only evidence in this  police report i could make an hour-long  video trust me the problem here is not  the police the problem here is the  politically motivated press and the way  this is made into propaganda althea went  on to say that she very firmly believes  that what she told us in the days  immediately after the attack is what  happened to her althea added quote i  just don't understand why there's no  evidence i just don't understand what  the videotape evidence of what actually  happened at that intersection isn't the  same as my  lie  most of the police report is unredacted  which is to say  uncensored but there are some  interesting erasures like this one  anything to do with her health anything  to do with the psychiatric medications  she may be taking anything to do with uh  what the burns  actually were caused by  whether the burns interface were caused  by  flame  or by abrasion or by a chemical reaction  that that has been omitted  and naturally people are asking  questions so although the physical  examination of the human being involved  in the story has been kept from public  view  the examination of the car has not been  and yes as you can imagine there is  telling  physical evidence including chemical  testing forensic laboratories so on and  so forth that once again discredits her  ridiculous difficult to believe story  these are not the only demonstrable lies  that you can find in the report and  these other lies although less salacious  speak to her character  she insists again and again  that when she arrived  at the hospital  she was wearing a blue  zip up  hooded sweatshirt  her father seemed very confused by this  the other people asked about it don't  remember her owning  a blue hooded sweatshirt and in fact at  one point her father goes to try to get  the sweatshirt he's like oh do you mean  this one and the rest of it she makes up  a further lie that this was a sweatshirt  that she'd bought in london england and  that her father didn't know about like  her father seems to know most of her  wardrobe she's not a fancy dresser as  you can see from this photograph but  guess what  this photograph is from the security  camera  showing the clothing that she was  wearing  when she arrived at the hospital she was  not wearing  a blue hooded sweatshirt now does this  matter  well it tells you what kind of person  she is what kind of stories she tells  she evidently felt it would make her  story seem more compelling or more  believable if there were this sweatshirt  that was soaked with lighter fluid that  stank of lighter fluid that provided  more tangible evidence that her story  was true now  actually if your sweatshirt were soaked  with lighter fluid and a live match or a  lit lighter was thrown in your car your  whole sweatshirt would have burst into  flames so it actually makes your story  less believable but she thinks this  makes her story more believable and she  makes up the further lie that because  this shirt stanks so much of the  accelerant of this flammable material  that the hospital staff took it away  from her and threw it in the garbage but  look this surveillance footage camera  doesn't lie  many people get into the habit of lying  to their parents and getting away with  it at an early age and you know what you  may be accustomed to lying to authority  figures at your school who fundamentally  just don't care if you go into the  principal's office and claim that you  were sick when you weren't really sick  it's very likely the authority figures  you dealt with in school fundamentally  don't care about what's true or false  they've just got to get on with their  schedule and deal with 40 other kids who  have 40 other excuses for why their  homework is late or why they couldn't  write the exam or whatever it is this  seems to me somebody who has  fundamentally become very comfortable  with that childish habit of mind of  making up stories and presuming she can  get away with it thank you to the  viewers who have sent it to me we will  look into it a little deeper and give  you updates as we get them it's easy  to preach freedom of speech  and it's much more difficult to deal  with problems of accountability you  might or might not have noticed the  extent to which the reporters at tyt the  young turks  coached their words  stating that they would follow up on  this later after they'd investigated it  more deeply because they weren't really  entirely confident that this story  checked out yeah go ahead search their  youtube channel search all their  websites  find any evidence of our attraction find  me a video  where they deliver the same hard-hitting  message that i'm delivering to you here  and now that this was fraud that this  was a hoax that this was massively  influential political propaganda that  reached an audience of millions of  people  and that frankly  radicalized people at a time when there  were really important political  questions to be asking simultaneous with  this surreal made-up imaginary neo-nazi  attack on the streets of wisconsin  the people of wisconsin decided to  demonstrate how woke they are by tearing  down a statue of a white man without  pausing to look up in wikipedia who that  white man was or why there was a statue  to him and guess what  he was  anti-slavery he died  fighting to liberate the slaves he was  somebody who was on the right side of  history but nevertheless black lives  matter protesters tore down his statue  just because he was white in the year  2020  mistakes were made and there were  important lessons to be learned from  those mistakes the young turks are going  to only prevent you from learning them  abc news  tragically is going to prevent you from  learning them because none of these  mainstream news sources did that most  simple essential thing that i did  none of them read the police report once  in a while i get an email asking me what  this logo is what do those four letters  stand for  active research and informed opinion  that's the motto hit me up  [Music]  maybe we can we can practice  yes